goals / platforms (#66)
wayfair-incubator/aux-eng-playbook: src/docs/goals/platforms.md

featured: ../images/featured/goals.png
---

In Auxiliary Engineering, we move out to consumer teams from a product team to solve problems and learn more about our products. The tools and products that an engineering support team puts out are that team's _platform_. Our goal in doing this is to enrich the platform, and the experience of those using it.

> A Python Platform team would provide tools that make Python simple to use and operate. A team focused on testing may maintain a continuous integration pipeline infrastructure, or testing frameworks. A Kubernetes-centric team may provide templates and automation to make interacting with Kubernetes simple for critical team operations and application development.
> 
> Our goals through AuxEng provide benefits to any team developing or maintaining a platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Python platform team would provide tools that make Python simple to use and operate. A team focused on testing might maintain continuous integration pipeline infrastructure or testing frameworks. A Kubernetes-centric team may provide templates and automation to make interacting with Kubernetes simple for critical team operations and application development.

Our goals through Aux Eng provide benefits to any team developing or maintaining a platform.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we use Aux Eng with a space in between consistently throughout the docs? I honestly thought the AuxEng version was our baseline – I have no preference either way other than for consistency :)

Reviewer: I think since doing the rename to `Aux Eng Playbook` it makes sense to converge on that, but in the past we've definitely used a mix of both. At some point we'll probably just need to do a sweep of the existing articles to make them all use consistent spacing, but that's probably outside scope for this PR.

Reviewer: Will be addressed in https://github.com/wayfair-incubator/aux-eng-playbook/pull/75.

( **cheat sheet:** `for FILE in theory/elements.md theory/concepts.md running/wrapping-up.md running/sourcing.md running/roles.md running/expectations.md running.md goals/platforms.md goals/mobility.md goals.md; do sed -i "" 's/AuxEng/Aux Eng/g' src/docs/$FILE; done` takes care of it in one go 😃  )

> Our goals through AuxEng provide benefits to any team developing or maintaining a platform.
> 
> ## Product, Platform, AuxEng

Reviewer: We should use consistent spacing in reference to Aux Eng / Aux Engineers throughout the article:

```suggestion
Our goals through Aux Eng provide benefits to any team developing or maintaining a platform.

## Product, Platform, Aux Eng
```

> In [lean software development](http://theleanstartup.com/principles), a software team builds code that might solve a problem. The team then measures the result through usage analytics or data on the affect their code may have on their users. The team _learns_ from those measurements and synthesizes ideas on what to build next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [lean software development](http://theleanstartup.com/principles), a software team builds code that might solve a problem. The team then measures the result through usage analytics or data on the effect their code may have on their users. The team _learns_ from those measurements, and synthesizes ideas on what to build next.
```

We believe in this methodology. A goal of any engagement in AuxEng is to provide measurement and learning during engagements, then fresh ideas and methodology for building off-engagement.

### During Engagements

> When an engineer works with another team, they are pair programming with the intended users of a platform. Part of that experience includes seeing where their products fall short or don't solve a problem effectively. If it takes 20 minutes to learn how to use a tool that saves 20 minutes, people will likely not use that tool. An Aux Engineer can learn this during an engagement; then learn the ways that their users _expect_ software or platforms to work (this is a less-data-driven approach to _measuring_ the success of any built changes). The Aux Engineer can relay feedback and proposed changes during or after the engagement (sharing _learning_) to appropriately serve real users engaging with a platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an engineer works with another team, they are pair programming with the intended users of a platform. Part of that experience includes seeing where their products fall short or don't solve a problem effectively. If it takes 20 minutes to learn how to use a tool that saves 20 minutes, people will likely not use that tool. An Aux Engineer can learn this during an engagement, then learn the ways that their users _expect_ software or platforms to work (this is a less-data-driven approach to _measuring_ the success of any built changes). The Aux Engineer can relay feedback and proposed changes during or after the engagement (sharing _learning_) to appropriately serve real users engaging with a platform.
```

The contributions an Aux Engineer can glean are hugely valuable. Keep in mind: they're doing this not only to serve a platform team's product and roadmap. Aux Eng actively moves the needs of the business forward, faster, by connecting experts in a domain/platform with others that need help engaging in that space. In our experience, that exposure from our team into our user teams is as valuable as building a critical change into our platform.

### Off-Engagements

As we've served our goals effectively on-engagement, it's important to highlight the goals off-engagement. The perspective that an Aux Engineer brings back to a team during an engagement is important. The perspective they can bring when they're not pairing 4 days a week with another team is just as vital to team success and productivity.

> It's a goal of Aux Eng programs to bring perspective and understanding of the software landscape and engineering culture back to a platform team. After working with teams in one or many spaces separate from the platform team, an engineer will promote difficulty that real teams have using products and processes back to a platform team. Our goal is to ultimately influence a product roadmap or design choices in a system toward the needs of actual users.

Reviewer: Wonder if a different word than `promote` makes more sense here.. convey?

Reviewer 2: I like `convey`, or something around "communicate the difficulties that real teams have"

## Platform Team Influence

> Another goal of AuxEng is to build stronger relationships across an organization or ecosystem. By engaging with users directly, and putting time in to understand their problems; a team practicing AuxEng reaps benefits of empathy and respect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another goal of Aux Eng is to build stronger relationships across an organization or ecosystem. By engaging with users directly, and putting time in to understand their problems, a team practicing Aux Eng reaps benefits of empathy and respect.
```

### Adoption and Understanding

It's a fact of software engineering life that we use software we didn't write ourselves. This might come from adoption of open source, a vendor's offering, or that of a platform team in the organization. In any case, it's common for engineers to have a hard time navigating docs or learning about a tool or framework to solve their problem.

> It's a goal of AuxEng to provide clarity for engineers in these moments of adoption and potential frustration. By engaging with engineers directly, solving problems alongside them and providing reasoning and understanding for why tools and platforms work the way they do -- we remove much of the learning curve and frustration for our products. We also provide a deeper understanding for the choices and tradeoffs made in adoption of a platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a goal of Aux Eng to provide clarity for engineers in these moments of adoption and potential frustration. By engaging with engineers directly, solving problems alongside them, and providing reasoning and understanding for why tools and platforms work the way they do, we remove much of the learning curve and frustration for our products. We also provide a deeper understanding for the choices and tradeoffs made in adoption of a platform.
```

We do this not only to benefit the teams with knowledge of the software we write and recommend. We provide this service so we, as subject matter experts, never become fully complacent in how we expect our users to think and feel about the product offering our platform teams provide.

### Building Relationships

Maintaining relationships as a team serving other teams is crucial. Without users to get feedback from, or use software at all, a platform team is not fully serving their purpose. When we engage with a team, we spend time pair programming and navigating the problems they deal with on a regular basis. The understanding of those problems and shared experience will build empathy and foundations for a long-standing mutually beneficial relationship.

> It's a goal of every Aux Engagement to find "champions" -- enthusiastic users or adopters of our systems -- to come back to regularly as a team for feedback and input on how the platform feels and is doing in the engineering culture around our users. Learning about how changes affect users, how adoption rate is growing, and gauging general sentiment from several of these advocates will help us make better directional and strategic decisions on how to operate and maintain our platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a goal of every Aux Engagement to find "champions" — enthusiastic users or adopters of our systems — who regularly provide input and offer feedback on how the platform is working for our engineering population. Learning about how changes affect users, how adoption is growing, and gauging general sentiment from these advocates helps us make better directional and strategic decisions on how to operate and maintain our platform.
```
